.TH confini-dump 1 Apply and output configurations

.SH NAME
confini-dump \- Apply and output configurations

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBconfini-dump\fP [ --ini ] [ --schema-dir ] [ \fIconfig_dir\fP ... ]


.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBconfini-dump\fP tool uses the confini module to read configuration schemas and files, and adjust the configuration settings from environment the environment. Its main use is as a tool for debugging actual configuration settings for libraries or tools that use the confini library.

By default configuration settings are output as an environment variable assignments file (e.g. importable into a current bash shell using the \fBsource\fP command). By specifying \fB--ini\fP ini configuration files may be output instead.

If schemas are specified with \fB--schema-dir\fP or \fB--schema-module\fP, the contents of each \fIconfig_dir\fP must match the given schemas. See \fBCONFIGURATION SCHEMAS\fP below.


.SS OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--ini\fP
Output configuration as an ini file instead of environment variable key/value pairs.

.TP
\fB--doc\fP \fIdoc-key\fP
Only match configuration keys exactly matching \fIdoc_key\fP. May be specified multiple times to match multiple keys. If not set, all configuration settings will be output.

.TP
\fB--prefix\fP \fIprefix_string\fP
Prefix all output lines with the given string. No effect if \fB--ini\fP is set.

.TP
\fB--schema-dir\fP
Merge configurations from schema_dir into the current configuration schema. May be specified several times. Complements \fB--schema-module\fP.

.TP
\fB--schema-module\fP
Merge configurations from the filesystem directory the given python module resolves to. For example, if the module \fBfoo.bar\fP is in explicit include path \fB/tmp/pythonpath\fP (e.g. set by \fBPYTHONPATH\fP), the resulting path will be \fB/tmp/pythonpath/foo/bar/\fP.

.TP
\fB--skip-empty\fP
Omit configuration settings that have empty values after applying environment.

.TP
\fB-v\fP
Sends verbose logging output to stderr. If not set, only \fBWARNING\fP level logs will be sent.

.TP
\fB-z\fP
Remove all values in output.


.SH CONFIGURATION SCHEMAS

Configuration schemas define the configuration keys that are valid for a specific context.

If run without the \fB--schema-dir\fP and/or \fB--schema-module\fP options, no schema constraints will be applied. Or rather, the schema will be the merge of all the configurations read from all \fIconfig_dir\fP positional arguments.

If \fB--schema-dir\fP and/or \fB--schema-module\fP are defined, all configurations from the locations specified in these switches will be read. A schema is them created from the merged configurations. Thereafter, configurations from the \fIconfig_dir\fP positional arguments are read. If any of the configuration keys do not match the schema, an error will occur.

Regardless of schemas, two different configuration file locations may not define the same configuration sections.


.SH LICENSE

This documentation and its source is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) license.

The source code of the tool this documentation describes is licensed under WTFPL 2.0.


.SH COPYRIGHT

Louis Holbrook <dev@holbrook.no> (https://holbrook.no)
PGP: 59A844A484AC11253D3A3E9DCDCBD24DD1D0E001

.SH SOURCE CODE

https://git.defalsify.org
